---
layout: post
location: Clermont-Fd, France
tldr: false
audio: false
title: "My Life On The Internets: A Year Later"
---

It has been [a year since I changed the way I deal with
Internet](/2015/01/16/rethinking-my-life-on-the-internets/) now, and I would
like to share some updates. I am pretty satisfied with my current setup, but a
few things could be improved.

I am more than **happy** with [Fastmail](http://www.fastmail.com/?STKI=13808765)
(affiliate link) for emails, calendars, and contacts. It works very well! It has
everything I ever needed, and support team is amazing! The only missing feature
is that, when sending an event invitation from my phone or laptop, it uses my
Fastmail email, _e.g._, `account@fastmail.com` rather than my own email, _i.e._
`will@drnd.me`.  Yet, this should be supported soon.

I do not use any Instant Messaging application anymore. I was a Google Talk
user, but as I do not use it anymore, I simply do not use any IM client anymore.
It is fine though, since email and SMS work well. Oh, and there is
[Slack](https://slack.com/) now :-) Unfortunately, I now use
[WhatsApp](https://www.whatsapp.com/), which is a Facebook company now. Not my
best choice, but it is a bit like fighting against Skype with family/friends, a
tough job.

Another "complicated battle" is related to the use of encrypted emails. I still
do send more cleartext emails than encrypted ones. It is a bit sad but
definitely understandable. I do not think people care enough about privacy.
Also, I do not use [iPGMail](https://ipgmail.com/) on my iPhone anymore, and it
is likely better since most of the encrypted emails I receive/send are
business-related.

A couple months ago, I bought a [Raspberry Pi 2](https://www.raspberrypi.org/)
for my place. I wanted to try **self-hosting**, _i.e._ hosting at home **my**
server, **my** data, and **my** services. I first installed [Tiny Tiny
RSS](https://tt-rss.org/), the best RSS feed reader ever! The feature I love is
the daily email digest. Every morning, I get an email at 8am, offering a few
links to read. Since there is an abstract for each link, I can ignore those I am
not interested in so that I do not spend too much time reading.

![](/images/posts/tt-rss.png)

I also self-host a Pastebin like, called
[ZeroBin](https://github.com/sebsauvage/ZeroBin), and lately
[ownCloud](https://owncloud.org/). The latter actually brings a new way of
thinking: we can go deeper (_Hi Cobb!_). Indeed, **ownCloud** 8 is amazingly
stable and fast, and it is now possible to [replace
Dropbox](https://twitter.com/couac/status/686325660080562178) (or Drive), but
also to **self-host calendars and contacts**. I would not self-host my emails
though since emails are rather critical, and should not be unavailable for too
long. At work, we chose to self-host most of our tools, including files,
calendars, and contacts. I may consider moving my personal calendars/contacts
from Fastmail to my ownCloud instance too. In case you do not want to manage
your "own" ownCloud, there are countless providers: in France, I would recommend
[Framadrive](https://framadrive.org/).

Last but not least, I keep using [Instapaper](https://www.instapaper.com), the
last web application that I am not self-hosting, even though
[Wallabag](https://www.wallabag.org/) seems more and more what I need.  What is
weird is that I do not know why... Oh, and I still did not find any
[Disqus](https://disqus.com/) alternative.

If you have any suggestions/ideas/whatever or want to share your own experience,
comments are open :-)
